**Author**: Mervin Fansler
**Date**: 20 April 2014

My evaluation function uses two features: *piece count* and *move count*.  For each of the features both player and opponent values are considered.  Rather than using a simple linear combination of these features, I elected to use a nonlinear factor that enables the move counts to play a more significant role when they are very high, and a less significant role as they become lower.  While I do take credit for thinking to explore nonlinearity, the exact form of my heuristic function was arrived at through trial and error.  I am still not completely sure why squaring the move counts seems to perform so well.  My best guess thus far has been that allowing piece counts to play a more significant relative role toward the end of the game is advantageous because it might serve to approximate a higher probability for the other player to land next to one of your pieces after a move, and such information may only have directly identifiable evidence outside of the depth 4 look-ahead limit.

The other features I considered using were moveable piece count and something I called *safeness*.  I implemented moveable piece counts and tried both linear and non-linear combinations with the previous two features for heuristics.  With moveable piece counts alone (e.g., `ourPieces/theirPieces` or `ourPieces - theirPieces`), my present heuristic still won out.  For combos, I could only find heuristics that tied my present one.  The *safeness* feature was intended to provide an estimate for the likelihood of a piece to be jumped later in the game, by considering what types of pieces it was immediately surrounded by.  However, I never got around to fully implementing this feature in a satisfactory manner.

For evaluation, I tested my current heurstic against players implementing basic linear and rational combinations of the three principle features I mentioned.  I also ran it against `RandomPlayer`, consistently achieving over 95% win rate.  All tests were performed on 8x8 boards.  I suspect that the squaring factor may need to be tuned for boards of different sizes, but I did not have the time to explore that further.  Hopefully the competition is held on an 8x8 board. ;)
